Document project groups (#831)
rust-lang/rust-forge: src/governance/project-groups.md

# Project groups

## Introduction

Project groups are a kind of Rust team intended to work on a specific project with the goal bringing the project to completion. They were first defined in [RFC 2856]. In summary:

- Project groups are created via team consensus (such as an RFC) and have a "parent team(s)"
- The groups then drive the project to completion, e.g. by authoring follow-up RFCs and doing design work.
- Once the work has been concluded, the group is archived.
- Each project group typically has:
  - A charter outlining the group's scope and goals.
  - Appointed shepherds and team liaisons.
  - An associated repository.
  - Dedicated streams on Discord/Zulip/etc.

[RFC 2856]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2856-project-groups.html

## Project group definition

> A Project Group is a group of people working on a particular project or responsibilities at the behest of an official Rust team. Some project groups are are ephemeral, meaning that they are archived once the project is complete. However, there are project groups that have continual work and maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Project Group is a group of people working on a particular project or responsibilities at the behest of an official Rust team. Some project groups are ephemeral, meaning that they are archived once the project is complete. However, there are project groups that have continual work and maintenance.
```

Previously a lot of the discussion and iteration for large features would happen in the initial RFC thread. This leads to a lot of discussion in the top of the thread and that often becomes completely irrelevant to the current iteration.

This process has also been unsuitable to describe features that can take multiple years to develop and will become multiple RFCs over the course of its design process. Some examples of of this are the "`impl Trait`" and "macros 2.0" features, where the goals has shifted a lot from the initial RFCs, and it can be hard to know their current status.

[ffi unwind]: https://github.com/rust-lang/project-ffi-unwind
[inline asm]: https://github.com/rust-lang/project-inline-asm
[safe transmute]: https://github.com/rust-lang/project-safe-transmute

## Project Group Creation
A project group should have the following;

- **Leads** — At least one person who acts as the leader of the group and is typically responsible for writing the initial charter, handling administrative and communication tasks, as well as delegating those responsibilities to other members in the group.

> - **Liaisons** — A member from a official Rust team that is sponsoring the work, and acts as a point of contact between the team and the group. They may or may be that directly involved, but they should check-in periodically and be able to represent the work in meetings with the team. They should also look out for when this might intersect with other work happening in the team that is beyond the working group itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Liaisons** — A member from a official Rust team that is sponsoring the work, and acts as a point of contact between the team and the group. They may or may not be that directly involved, but they should check-in periodically and be able to represent the work in meetings with the team. They should also look out for when this might intersect with other work happening in the team that is beyond the working group itself.
```

(I think?)

[zulip]: https://rust-lang.zulipchat.com
[discord]: https://discord.gg/rust-lang

## Initial Setup

Once a group has been approved, a pull request with the initial set of members should be made to [`rust-lang/team`]. Please refer to team's documentation for how to create a group.

It is then recommended for the project group to create a repository under the `rust-lang` organisation using the [project group template], and making any relevant changes and personalisation.

[`rust-lang/team`]: https://github.com/rust-lang/team
[project group template]: https://github.com/rust-lang/project-group-template

## Evaluation

Parent teams should add checking in with their project groups as part of their regular triage. The project group is also encouraged to post their progress updates and meeting minutes as blog posts on the ["Inside Rust" blog][inside-rust].

[inside-rust]: https://blog.rust-lang.org/inside-rust

## Archival

At some point, the group's work will conclude. Whether because the work is complete, or the members cannot finish the work, or the group feels like the project isn't worth pursuing further. The author is calling this process "Archival".

### Announcement

> A group that is considering archival should first figure out what should happen to any crates, repositories, or projects that they started. In general these projects should be migrated to other groups or individuals, or archived if there is there isn't any suitable candidate for maintaining the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A group that is considering archival should first figure out what should happen to any crates, repositories, or projects that they started. In general these projects should be migrated to other groups or individuals, or archived if there isn't any suitable candidate for maintaining the project.
```

Once that has been resolved the group should write an announcement of their archival along with any relevant details about the migration and/or archival of projects.

### Retrospective

> While this RFC attempts to address some of the current organisational problems within the organisation, the author doesn't believe will be a panacea to those problems or that we won't encounter new problems in the future. As part of that, the RFC introduce having retrospectives with the groups once significant time has past or the group has been finished it's project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While this RFC attempts to address some of the current organisational problems within the organisation, the author doesn't believe will be a panacea to those problems or that we won't encounter new problems in the future. As part of that, the RFC introduce having retrospectives with the groups once significant time has past or the group has finished its project.
```
